The Harmonogram Program
Author: Nathan Chappell


The program contained here is a "harmonogram drawer."  The idea was
inspired by the concept of harmonograms meant to give visual
representations of overtones.  For example, consider playing a perfect
fifth on your favorite instrument (frequency ratio 3:2).  The combination
of these two notes creates an entirely new feel, new sound, indeed a new
shape.  After compiling the program, go to the command line and input:

./harmonogram example/2O3O

Hopefully you see a neat "hourglass" or "bent-inward-helix" on the screen.
To its left, you should be able to see two little "lines" oscillating left
and right, up and down.  The coordinates of the harmonogram are the sum of
the coordinates of the two oscillators.  Now, press <space> (not in the
text file, on the window with the oscillators!)  There should be some
pulsing circles at the center of the various pendulums.  Click one, and you
can move the pendulums around a little bit.  Also notice that when you
click that dot, the "color effects" mode changes.  You can get fading and
rainbow, but they will require quite a bit more computational power
(apparently its much easier to draw a long, uniform line than a line with
 varying attributes).

If you've moved everything around, and want to reset, push "r" on the
keyboard.  This actually causes the program to re-read the input files, so
you can edit some parameters for the oscillators and quickly see the
results.

If all you do is edit some of the example input files given in the folder
"examples," you will probably learn everything you need to about the syntax
for specifying the oscillators, but if there are any other questions please
send an email to:

nathan.s.chappell@gmail.com


